README.md, before:

<div align="center">

<a href="https://github.com/Karlos348/dBlik"><img src="assets/logo.png" width="150" height="150"/></a>

<h1>dBlik</h1>

Distributed [BLIK](https://www.blik.com/)-like app using the Solana blockchain infrastructure.

</div>

---

[![Project Status: WIP – Work in Progress](https://img.shields.io/badge/Project%20Status-WIP-yellow.svg)](https://github.com/Karlos348/dBlik)

## Motivations
The main goal is to learn about smart contracts and work in other languages than my native C#. The Solana blockchain was chosen rather accidentally, although the most important criteria were low transaction fees and popularity. I enjoy challenges, so I've chosen a topic I wasn't sure if it was even possible to accomplish.

## Overview

<div align="center">

![overview](assets/overview.svg)

</div>

## Roadmap
- [x] Preliminary research
- [ ] MVP
    - [x] On-chain program with basic functionality
    - [ ] Cover the program with tests
    - [ ] Local demo
- [ ] Optional
    - [ ] Public demo
    - [x] Refunding overdue funds in the Transaction Account
    - [x] Transaction cancellation by customer
    - [x] Transaction expiration by store
    - [ ] Integration with chosen e-commerce platform
    - [ ] Mobile application
    - [ ] Reusing Storage Accounts to reduce transaction fees

## Research and conclusions
### Generating random code

As it is known, the application relies on generating random codes, which is not feasible within the domain of blockchain. Additionally, all data on the blockchain is public. While I discovered solution like [Switchboard Randomness](https://docs.switchboard.xyz/randomness), which allows for providing VRF (Verifiable Random Function), it's too expensive for generating a one-time code.

Therefore, I've decided to generate the code off-chain.

### Thousands of transactions at the same time

I was wondering how to store temporary (or not) transaction data. I tried using [Zero Copy Account](https://solana.com/docs/core/accounts#creating), which allows for storing a larger (max 10 MiB vs 10 KiB), but still limited, amount of data. However, I didn't have a solution for handling entry deletions.

I came up with the idea of creating a new Storage Account for each transaction, with a custom address generated, using a random code and timestamp as the seed. In consequence, I don't need to store any references in any central location.

### Generating address from the seed

The built-in function `anchor.web3.SystemProgram.createAccountWithSeed()` [caused the seed to be visible](https://explorer.solana.com/tx/4a2Ra4p59sJeZ4c877xd6hfieqRxSr52begUJKXYDkq9ARPYMotRhwbzD5k8DoD3Ce17qZ6GbudQYUm7vfBK411w?cluster=devnet). 

So, I've decided to use the standard method `anchor.web3.SystemProgram.createAccount()`, in which I can declare separately generated keys and sign the transaction.

## Vulnerabilities

The attacker, by subscribing to changes in the program, can easly obtain the account address with transaction data. They can send a payment request without knowing the code.

The only solution that comes to mind, besides comparing the transaction amount, is attaching additional custom information from the store, such as the name and internal transaction ID. However, this still requires caution from the user.

## Setup
TBD

Commit message:

add a refundable charge for hooking into transaction to prevent auto requests - part 2

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

<a href="https://github.com/Karlos348/dBlik"><img src="assets/logo.png" width="150" height="150"/></a>

<h1>dBlik</h1>

Distributed [BLIK](https://www.blik.com/)-like app using the Solana blockchain infrastructure.

</div>

---

[![Project Status: WIP – Work in Progress](https://img.shields.io/badge/Project%20Status-WIP-yellow.svg)](https://github.com/Karlos348/dBlik)

## Motivations
The main goal is to learn about smart contracts and work in other languages than my native C#. The Solana blockchain was chosen rather accidentally, although the most important criteria were low transaction fees and popularity. I enjoy challenges, so I've chosen a topic I wasn't sure if it was even possible to accomplish.

## Overview

<div align="center">

![overview](assets/overview.svg)

</div>

## Roadmap
- [x] Preliminary research
- [ ] MVP
    - [x] On-chain program with basic functionality
    - [ ] Cover the program with tests
    - [ ] Local demo
- [ ] Optional
    - [ ] Public demo
    - [x] Refunding overdue funds in the Transaction Account
    - [x] Transaction cancellation by customer
    - [x] Transaction expiration by store
    - [ ] Integration with chosen e-commerce platform
    - [ ] Mobile application
    - [ ] Reusing Storage Accounts to reduce transaction fees

## Research and conclusions
### Generating random code

As it is known, the application relies on generating random codes, which is not feasible within the domain of blockchain. Additionally, all data on the blockchain is public. While I discovered solution like [Switchboard Randomness](https://docs.switchboard.xyz/randomness), which allows for providing VRF (Verifiable Random Function), it's too expensive for generating a one-time code.

Therefore, I've decided to generate the code off-chain.

### Thousands of transactions at the same time

I was wondering how to store temporary (or not) transaction data. I tried using [Zero Copy Account](https://solana.com/docs/core/accounts#creating), which allows for storing a larger (max 10 MiB vs 10 KiB), but still limited, amount of data. However, I didn't have a solution for handling entry deletions.

I came up with the idea of creating a new Storage Account for each transaction, with a custom address generated, using a random code and timestamp as the seed. In consequence, I don't need to store any references in any central location.

### Generating address from the seed

The built-in function `anchor.web3.SystemProgram.createAccountWithSeed()` [caused the seed to be visible](https://explorer.solana.com/tx/4a2Ra4p59sJeZ4c877xd6hfieqRxSr52begUJKXYDkq9ARPYMotRhwbzD5k8DoD3Ce17qZ6GbudQYUm7vfBK411w?cluster=devnet). 

So, I've decided to use the standard method `anchor.web3.SystemProgram.createAccount()`, in which I can declare separately generated keys and sign the transaction.

## Vulnerabilities

The attacker, by subscribing to changes in the program, can easly obtain the account address with transaction data. They can send a payment request without knowing the code.

The solution that comes to mind first, besides comparing the transaction amount, is attaching additional custom information from the store, such as the name and internal transaction ID. However, this still requires caution from the user.

The second option is to charge the store a refundable fee for hooking up to the transaction, which will be refunded regardless of the success of the transaction.

## Setup
TBD
